What I hope to gain out of this course: the technical knowledge and tools to translate my creativity into compassionate UX designs, and make me a well rounded, creative frontend software engineer. 

A Little UX History
UX term was first coined by Don Norman in the 90's, but concept has been around for thousands of years (think feng shuei)

UX: How people use or interact with products 

UXD Portfolio Roadmap:
Course Certificate requires 3 major UXD projects and 3 case studies.

The Basics of UX Design:
UX - how a person/user feels about interacting with or experiencing a product
product - a good, service, or feature

Product needs to be:

Usable - purpose, structure, and design are clear. How would all different types of people use this product. ie can people actually use the product? 

Equitable - designs are useful, usable, and marketable to people with different abilities. Accessibility and inclusion come into play here (think icons with a wide range of skin color options).

Enjoyable - fosters a positive connection between a user and a product. Take user feedback into account through research 

Useful - products solve a problem. 

The point: product designs that take the above 4 points into account improve business, regardless of the industry

Empathy is a major part of UX design, because it's important to understand different user perspectives.

UX designer responsibilities:
There are many different kinds of designers

Interaction designers - design the experience of a product and how it functions. How to connect a user's needs with what is actually feasable to build (this specification really resonates with me).

Visual designers - how a product looks. Might design logos, icons, or decide layouts/colors

Motion designers - consider what it feels like when users move through a product, such as thinking about smooth transitions.

Graphic designers - slightly different then UX design, and has to do entirely with the appearence of a product 

UX researchers - research how people use a product through studies/interviews.

UX writers - is the language of the product clear? 

Production designers - bridge between designers and engineers

UX engineers - translate design's intent into a functioning experience

UX PMs - provide logistical support 

Product Development Lifecycle: The process used to take a product from an idea to a reality.

Stages:
Brainstorm - an active discovery stage about generating ideas about the user and the problem to be solved. Research plays a key role in this stage.

Define - Using insights from above stage to narrow the focus. Specific details of the product take shape. Goals, problems to be solved

Above 2 stages are about defining who your users are, what their needs might be, and what the problem is you're solving for. 

Design - actively develop ideas based on insights from the planning stages above. Create storyboards, wireframes, prototypes during this stage

Test - evals of current product design based on user feedback. 

Launch - releasing finish version of a product to the public. Refinements continue based on user feedback. 


Design for a good user experience 
Predicting user roadblocks is really important 

Icons can cross language barriers, save space, and look pleasing, but need to be clear. If they aren't, text is more useful, or adding text.

Good user experience should create products that are intuitive and easy to use. Each product should be designed to make users feel a certain way, and learn from your own experiences as a user. What is good/poor? What could be better? 

Common UX Designer Responsibilities

-researching (understand users that will be using your product)

-wireframing (outline/sketch of a product)

-prototyping (early model of a product that demonstrates functionality)

-creating information architecture (framework/organization of a website)

Also, it's a collaborative position, so team building and teamwork are very important 